In this video we'll learn about V.M. Virtual SAN or VSAN product that leverages the local storage of
ESX I hosts to present high performance shared storage across a cluster.
Now that's a mouthful.
So let's start with the very basics with Virtual SAN.
We are going to allow local storage to be used as shared storage.
And this is really important because for features like Wii motion or high availability or Diyar Ross
we have to have shared storage required shared storage for any of those features.
And so for the motion of VM from one host to another if we're going to enable H.A. across a cluster
and allow virtual machines to fail over across that cluster if a single host fails or if multiple hosts
fails we have to have shared storage enough or in order to enable those features and same thing with
Diyar ass if we're going to enable distributed resource scheduler we have to use Wii motion for that
and therefore we require shared storage.
So if you're going to set up high availability or diarists you need to create a cluster.
Same thing with these and it's graded on the cluster VSX by hosts and it can leverage the local storage
of those ESX hosts in the form of what we call disk groups.
These groups are local storage that is combined to form one large data store that's accessible to all
the hosts in the cluster and that data store is going to have SSD caching capability.
So I read cache and write buffer built right into it to give high performance.
All right.
So it started with the very basics here the sand needs to be enabled on an ESX host cluster.
You can create clusters for a number of different purposes.
It's essentially just a logical grouping of ESX host.
So for example let's say you have these four ESX host we see here in a VM is running on Host 1.
Well if we go ahead and we group those hosts available as a cluster we can enable high availability
and if one of those hosts fails the VM will reboot on some other host.
Or we can enable digress to have virtual machines automatically load balance across those hosts or we
can enable virtual sent these in.
So these are all different features that are available only on a cluster of ESX I host so the storage
on our ESX I host is going to be organized into something called disk groups.
That's the that's the logical unit of storage.
That virtual scene is going to essentially consume and share out across the closter.
So here on ESX 0 1 you can see we've got two disk groups.
Each disk group in this case has six hard disk drives in one solid state drive.
You know host 0 2 has one disk group 0 0 three has one disk group and you can set this up to automatically
happen.
All right.
So it's called disk claim mode and Virtual SAN.
And you can set up what's called automatic disk Kwei mode.
So what that means is that as you install SSD and hard disk drives onto your ESX host they will be automatically
claimed and allocated to the SAN disk groups or you can use what's called Manual claim mode and in manual
claim mode you will manually create the disk groups and choose which storage devices go in which disk
group is really only a few rules that you have to bear in mind.
So for each disk group you have to have at least one SSD device and then you can either have a group
of one or more magnetic devices like hard disk drives and those are called our capacity devices.
And so the purpose of the SSD is purely to be used as a read cache and a write buffer.
The purpose of the capacity devices which in this case are hard disk drives is the persistent storage
of data.
The long term persistent storage of data and these capacity devices we have a couple of options here.
Right.
In a hybrid configuration the capacity devices are going to be hard disk drives.
That's our hybrid configuration right.
It's part SSD part hard disk.
Or we could go with an all flash configuration in which case our cached device will be SSD and all of
these capacity devices will also be SSD.
And I know my highlighted doesn't really make a great pain here but that says SSD.
So that's the all flash configuration which obviously is going to outperform the hybrid configuration.
Right so if you need extremely fast all flash performance then you should go with an all flash VCR configuration
and there's features specifically that make the all Flash version a little bit more cost effective because
we all know SSD storage really expensive right.
The price you're going to pay per gigabyte is much higher than you would pay with traditional hard disk
drives.
So going with an all flash configuration can get really expensive really quickly.
Now with that being said the current version of VCM supports features like RAID 6 and RAID 5 array or
coding and other space reclamation techniques specifically on an all flash hand configuration.
Those features are not supported on the hybrid.
They're only supported on all flash.
So if you're kind of thinking well which way should I go should I go all Flash should I go hybrid.
Bear that in mind right that if you take advantage of some of the space saving techniques that are introduced
in the current version of VSE San you can potentially get that all flash configuration to approximately
somewhere near the price of your hybrid deployment because of the fact that you can reduce the amount
of data that you need to store.
So I know I kind of diverged off on a bit of a side topic there but back to the very basics right.
So once we've created our ESX host cluster we can enable virtual San'a we can enable VSAN and at that
point all of those disks in our disk group those centrally be combined to form one big data store call
their vse and data store the data store will be comprised of all of the space provided by the disk groups
on all of the ESX hosts and the hosts can be part of the cluster even if they don't actually contribute
any storage which is kind of funny to think about but you could potentially add a fourth ESX I host
with no local storage and let it just use the capacity of the vse and atest or both that being said
you have to have storage on the first three hosts in the cluster and most of the time it is not really
recommended to have a host with no local capacity as part of a VC and cluster.
OK so the basic concepts of the San are what we've covered so far right.
We know that number one we're going to leverage local storage to create a shared data store.
We know that that local storage can either be 100 percent SSD or it can be a hybrid configuration where
it's got an SSD read cache and write buffer.
But on the back end all of the capacity devices are traditional physical hard disks.